Re-worked Session Resumption Usage Guide Sections (#3423)
aws/s2n-tls: docs/USAGE-GUIDE.md

Call `s2n_connection_get_sct_list()` to retrieve the received certificate transparency information. The format of this data is the SignedCertificateTimestampList structure defined in section 3.3 of RFC 6962.

## Session Resumption

> 

Reviewer: We should probably add a section on the session ticket key. How does it rotate? Any rules for generating it?

Also, can you describe how a client retrieves the tickets? You mostly talk about how to set them.

Author: Okay I added this section, but rules for generating it? Do we have those rules?

TLS handshake sessions are CPU-heavy due to the calculations involved in authenticating a certificate. These calculations can be skipped after the first connection by turning on session resumption. This mechanism stores state from the previous session and uses it to establish the next session, allowing the handshake to skip the costly authentication step while keeping the same cryptographic guarantees. Note that this session state is encrypted by the server, so a server will have to set up an external key in order to do session resumption.

### Stateless Session Resumption

In stateless session resumption the server creates a 'session ticket' from some state after a successful handshake. The server sends this ticket to a client, and the client can send that ticket back to the server during a new connection to skip the authentication step. This mechanism allows servers to avoid storing individual state for each client, and for that reason is the preferred method for resuming a session.

> 

Reviewer: Do you want to call out how this is safe? Readers might go "but how do I know the ticket is valid / real."

Author: Can you elaborate on what you mean here? Who are we talking about, the server or the client?

Reviewer: The server I guess. I meant we might want to at least briefly mention why session tickets can replace certificates for auth.

#### A Note on TLS1.3 Session Resumption

> 

Reviewer: Should this be under the stateless section? If we added stateful for TLS1.3, you'd have the same issues.

> Session resumption works differently in versions TLS1.3 and higher. Session ticket messages are now sent immediately after the handshake in "post-handshake" messages, although more tickets can be sent and received anytime after the handshake has completed. Because of this clients need to call s2n_recv after negotiating to receive session ticket messages, as these could arrive anytime post-handshake. Additionally, multiple session tickets may be issued for the same connection.

Reviewer 2: `s2n_recv` that needs to be called to make progress anyway right?

> Session resumption works differently in versions TLS1.3 and higher. Session ticket messages are now sent immediately after the handshake in "post-handshake" messages, although more tickets can be sent and received anytime after the handshake has completed. Because of this clients need to call s2n_recv after negotiating to receive session ticket messages, as these could arrive anytime post-handshake. Additionally, multiple session tickets may be issued for the same connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In TLS1.2, session ticket messages are sent during the handshake and are automatically received as part of calling s2n_negotiate. They will be available as soon as negotiation is complete.

In TLS1.3, session ticket messages are sent after the handshake as "post-handshake" messages and may not be received as part of calling s2n_negotiate. An s2n-tls server will send tickets immediately after the handshake, so they can be received by calling s2n_recv immediately after the handshake completes. However, other server implementations may send their session tickets later, at any time during the connection. 

Additionally, in TLS1.3, multiple session tickets may be issued for the same connection. <call out the APIs to set the number of tickets>
```

Feels weird to call out "and higher" when we don't know how it'll work in a hypothetical 1.4 :)

I'm also not sure you're clear enough on the difference here. We should be very clear on what TLS1.2 does vs what TLS1.3 does. See if you like any part of my rewrite better.

Servers should call `s2n_config_set_session_tickets_onoff()` to enable stateless session resumption. Additionally the server needs to set up an encryption key using `s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key()`.

Clients should call `s2n_config_set_session_tickets_onoff()` to enable stateless session resumption and set a session ticket callback function using `s2n_config_set_session_ticket_cb()`. Then `s2n_connection_set_session()` should be called when attempting to resume a new connection.

### Stateful Session Resumption

> 

Reviewer: You call out that it's not implemented for TLS1.3-- do we error if you try to use it with TLS1.3? What's the behavior?

> 
> Stateful session resumption, also known as session caching, is the same as the stateless mechanism, however in this case the server caches the session state per client and resumes a session based on the client's session ID. Note that session caching has not been implemented for > TLS1.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In stateful session resumption, also known as session caching, the server caches the session state per client and resumes a session based on the client's session ID. Note that session caching has not been implemented for > TLS1.2.
```

> Servers should call `s2n_config_set_session_cache_onoff()` to enable stateful session resumption, and set the three caching callback functions: `s2n_config_set_cache_store_callback()`, `s2n_config_set_cache_retrieve_callback()`, and `s2n_config_set_cache_delete_callback()`. Additionally, the server needs to set up an encryption key using `s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key()`.

Reviewer: To confirm: you DON'T need to also call s2n_config_set_session_tickets_onoff?

Author: No... you don't additionally need to call that function and turn session tickets off.

Reviewer: No, I meant do you need to turn tickets on before you turn caching on, or does turning caching on both enable tickets and turn on the session cache. I remember there was some confusion there, don't remember the answer.

Author: You turn these two features on individually. Why would turning on caching also turn on tickets?

> Clients can call `s2n_client_hello_get_session_id()` to retrieve the session ID sent in the ClientHello message and use that session ID to inform the server which session to resume.

Reviewer: How do they inform the server of that? What API?

Call `s2n_connection_get_sct_list()` to retrieve the received certificate transparency information. The format of this data is the SignedCertificateTimestampList structure defined in section 3.3 of RFC 6962.

## Session Resumption

TLS handshake sessions are CPU-heavy due to the calculations involved in authenticating a certificate. These calculations can be skipped after the first connection by turning on session resumption. This mechanism stores state from the previous session and uses it to establish the next session, allowing the handshake to skip the costly authentication step while keeping the same cryptographic guarantees. The authentication step can be skipped because both the server and client will use their possession of the key from the previous session to prove who they are. We usually refer to the stored session state as a "session ticket". Note that this session ticket is encrypted by the server, so a server will have to set up an external key in order to do session resumption.

### Session Ticket Key

> 
> The key that encrypts and decrypts the session state is not related to the TLS key derivation process and has to be set by the server by calling `s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key()`. See [RFC5077](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5077#section-5.5) for guidelines on securely generating keys.

Reviewer: Nice for calling this out, bc I have definitely gotten questions about this before. But maybe the below is clearer? Or maybe "not related to TLS handshake keys"?
```suggestion

The key that encrypts and decrypts the session state is not related to the keys negotiated as part of the TLS handshake and has to be set by the server by calling `s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key()`. See [RFC5077](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5077#section-5.5) for guidelines on securely generating keys.
```

> Each key has two different expiration dates. The first expiration date signifies the time that the key can be used for both encryption and decryption. The second expiration date signifies the time that the key can be used only for decryption. This mechanism is to ensure that a session ticket can be successfully decrypted if it was encrypted by a key that was about to expire. The full lifetime of the key is therefore the encrypt-decrypt lifetime plus the decrypt-only lifetime. To alter the default key lifetime call `s2n_config_set_ticket_encrypt_decrypt_key_lifetime()` and `s2n_config_set_ticket_decrypt_key_lifetime()`.

Reviewer: Do we call out the default lifetime anywhere in the documentation?

Author: We call it out in the doxygen notes

> The server will stop issuing session resumption tickets if a user doesn't set up a new key before the previous key passes through its encrypt-decrypt lifetime. Therefore it is recommended to add a new key when half of previous key's encrypt-decrypt lifetime has passed.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server will stop issuing session resumption tickets if a user doesn't set up a new key before the previous key passes through its encrypt-decrypt lifetime. Therefore it is recommended to add a new key when half of the previous key's encrypt-decrypt lifetime has passed.

```

Servers should set the three caching callback functions: `s2n_config_set_cache_store_callback()`, `s2n_config_set_cache_retrieve_callback()`, and `s2n_config_set_cache_delete_callback()` and then call `s2n_config_set_session_cache_onoff()` to enable stateful session resumption. Session caching will not be turned on unless all three session cache callbacks are set prior to calling `s2n_config_set_session_cache_onoff()`. Additionally, the server needs to set up an encryption key using `s2n_config_add_ticket_crypto_key()`.

Clients should call `s2n_connection_get_session()` to retrieve some serialized state about the session. Then `s2n_connection_set_session()` should be called with that saved state when attempting to resume a new connection.

### Session Resumption in TLS1.2 and TLS1.3

> In TLS1.2, session ticket messages are sent during the handshake and are automatically received as part of calling `s2n_negotiate()`. They will be available as soon as negotiation is complete.
> In TLS1.3, session ticket messages are sent after the handshake as "post-handshake" messages, and may not be received as part of calling `s2n_negotiate()`. A s2n-tls server will send tickets immediately after the handshake, so clients can receive them by calling `s2n_recv()` immediately after the handshake completes. However, other server implementations may send their session tickets later, at any time during the connection. 
> Additionally, in TLS1.3, multiple session tickets may be issued for the same connection. Servers can call `s2n_config_set_initial_ticket_count()` to set the number of tickets they want to send and `s2n_connection_add_new_tickets_to_send()` to increase the number of tickets to send during a connection.

Reviewer: Did newlines get lost, or is that intentional?

```suggestion
In TLS1.2, session ticket messages are sent during the handshake and are automatically received as part of calling `s2n_negotiate()`. They will be available as soon as negotiation is complete.

In TLS1.3, session ticket messages are sent after the handshake as "post-handshake" messages, and may not be received as part of calling `s2n_negotiate()`. A s2n-tls server will send tickets immediately after the handshake, so clients can receive them by calling `s2n_recv()` immediately after the handshake completes. However, other server implementations may send their session tickets later, at any time during the connection. 

Additionally, in TLS1.3, multiple session tickets may be issued for the same connection. Servers can call `s2n_config_set_initial_ticket_count()` to set the number of tickets they want to send and `s2n_connection_add_new_tickets_to_send()` to increase the number of tickets to send during a connection.
```
